Release 6.0 (#1342)
ember-learn/ember-blog: content/ember-6-0-released.md

---
title: Ember 6.0 Released
image:
imageMeta:
  attribution:
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - jared-galanis
date: 2024-11-20T00:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - releases
  - '2024'
  - version-6-x
---

> EmberJS 6.0 embodies the commitment to stability and reliability that developers have come to expect from the Ember ecosystem. The Ember team has worked hard to remove all the deprecations and make us move towards Polaris. Get up-to-date with the latest in Ember and enjoy!

Reviewer: We actually have not removed the deprecations -- we now have them throw in the major so the APIs are removed but the warnings still are there, for at least one release

> EmberJS 6.0 embodies the commitment to stability and reliability that developers have come to expect from the Ember ecosystem. The Ember team has worked hard to remove all the deprecations and make us move towards Polaris. Get up-to-date with the latest in Ember and enjoy!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ember 6.0 continues the commitment to stability and reliability that developers have come to expect from the Ember ecosystem and further moves us towards the [Polaris Edition of Ember](https://emberjs.com/editions/polaris/).  Get up-to-date with the latest in Ember and enjoy!
```

This post will cover our release strategy, how to upgrade, what to expect, and deprecated APIs that were removed.

> This release follwos the release strategy and goals proposed in [RFC 830, Evolving Ember's Major Version Process](https://rfcs.emberjs.com/id/0830-evolving-embers-major-version-process).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release follows the release strategy and goals proposed in [RFC 830, Evolving Ember's Major Version Process](https://rfcs.emberjs.com/id/0830-evolving-embers-major-version-process).
```

To summarize, every 12 minor releases, Ember will ship a new major release, which removes any
deprecated code targeted for that major version.

When it comes to introducing new features, Ember generally aims to ship new features in minor releases, offering backwards compatibility for existing code at the same time as giving developers the chance to try out new capabilities.
This approach reduces the challenges that teams face for major upgrades, compared to producing big, breaking, splashy major versions with lots of new features.

<!-- alex ignore retext-equality -->

In Ember 5.x minor releases, we landed a bunch of features (along with various bug fixes, of course):

> - In [Ember 5.1]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.1](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-1/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.2]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.2](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-2/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.3]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.3](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-3/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.1](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-1/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.1](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-1/), we published [stable types from Ember's own TypeScript source code](https://blog.emberjs.com/stable-typescript-types-in-ember-5-1). We also shipped official support for `pnpm` in `ember-cli`.
```

> - In [Ember 5.4]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.4](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-4/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.5]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.5](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-5/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.6]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.6](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-6/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.2](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-2/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.2](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-2/), we added a public import for the `uniqueId` helper so it can be used in `<template>`.
```

> - In [Ember 5.7]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.7](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-7/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.8]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.8](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-8/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.9]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.9](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-9/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.3](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-3/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.3](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-3/), we [deprecated implicit record loading in Ember Routes](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v5.x#toc_deprecate-implicit-route-model).
```

> - In [Ember 5.10]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.10](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-10/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.11]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.11](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-11/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.12]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.12](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-12/)
```

> - In [Ember 5.4](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-4/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - In [Ember 5.5](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-5/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.5](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-5/), we made several changes to `ember-cli` to smooth the way to `embroider` and `<template>`. We also deprecated built-in support for using Travis CI as a CI provider.
```

> - In [Ember 5.6](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-6/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.6](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-6/), `ember-cli` gained a small but helpful feature to automatically choose a port when `4200` is already in use.
```

> - In [Ember 5.7](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-7/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.7](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-7/), we added an optional feature to opt-in to the new behavior of [deprecated implicit record loading in Ember Routes](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v5.x#toc_deprecate-implicit-route-model) ahead of 6.0.
```

> - In [Ember 5.8](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-8/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.8](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-8/), we improved the parsing of `.gts` files in blueprints in `ember-cli`.
```

> - In [Ember 5.9](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-9/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.9](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-9/), we made a major improvement to our major version release process. When the `until` of a deprecation for `ember-source` or `ember-cli` is less than or equal to the version of the package being used, deprecations will throw. 
In this way, deprecations automatically "break" when they were intended to break and do not need to be manually cleaned up. If we leave the deprecations in place for at least the x.0 release, this has a nice side-effect for users in that any missed deprecations will now throw once you upgrade, rather than vanish. This was part of [RFC #0830](https://rfcs.emberjs.com/id/0830-evolving-embers-major-version-process). 

We also deprecated `(action)` and `{{action}}` in favor of `on`.
```

> - In [Ember 5.10](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-10/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.10](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-10/), we made internal changes to `ember-source` to build with [Vite](https://vite.dev/), with no AMD loader present. This ensures that Ember.js is strictly following the ES module spec.

We also [deprecated non-colocated component template resolution](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v5.x#toc_component-template-resolving) (component templates living in `app/templates/components` instead of `app/components`).

Another deprecation of note is the [Array Prototype extensions](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v5.x#toc_deprecate-array-prototype-extensions).
```

> - In [Ember 5.11](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-11/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - In [Ember 5.12](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-12/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In [Ember 5.12](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-released-5-12/), there was an update to `glimmer-vm` that brought with it performance improvements. 
```

We also made significant strides in key parts of the ecosystem outside the core framework itself over the past 18 months:

> [list strides here]

Reviewer: cc @mansona @NullVoxPopuli @ef4 for outside main packages improvements since May 2023.

Reviewer 2: Internal, nearly all runtime packages are v2 addons, and all runtime packages will be v2 addons by 6.3, I think. Everything supports Polaris features (gjs, gts, etc)

In 6.1, gjs/gts is enabled by default, with linting and type-checking (for TS projects)

Community:
- too many to list 🙈 we could, but...

> [list strides here]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In November 2023, we updated the Lockstep Versioning strategy for Ember Data. EmberData continues to support all Ember LTS'es with an LTS of their own, but the exact versions no longer match. See the [blog post](https://blog.emberjs.com/updates-to-ember-data-versioning-strategy) for more details.

[list strides here]
```

> Ember 6.0 has no new features, because we did all that work in minor releases instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ember 6.0 has no new features over Ember 5.12, because we did all that work in minor releases instead.
```

You can read more about our general release process here:

- [Release Dashboard](http://emberjs.com/releases/)
- [The Ember Release Cycle](https://blog.emberjs.com/new-ember-release-process/)
- [The Ember Project](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-project-at-2-0/)
- [Ember LTS Releases](https://blog.emberjs.com/announcing-embers-first-lts/)

## Beta cycle

This release kicks off the 6.1 beta cycle for all sub-projects. We encourage our community (especially addon authors) to help test these beta builds and report any bugs before they are published as a final release in six weeks' time. The [ember-try](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-try) addon is a great way to continuously test your projects against the latest Ember releases.

> ## How to upgrade to Ember 6

Reviewer: This release is also the point at which 5.12 becomes LTS

> This release kicks off the 6.1 beta cycle for all sub-projects. We encourage our community (especially addon authors) to help test these beta builds and report any bugs before they are published as a final release in six weeks' time. The [ember-try](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-try) addon is a great way to continuously test your projects against the latest Ember releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release kicks off the 6.1 beta cycle for all sub-projects. We encourage our community (especially addon authors) to help test these beta builds and report any bugs before they are published as a final release in six weeks' time. The [ember-try](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-try) addon is a great way to continuously test your projects against the latest Ember releases.

Version 5.12 of Ember.js is now promoted to LTS (Long Term Support). The current LTS version of EmberData remains at version 5.3. An LTS version of Ember continues to receive security updates for 9 release cycles (54 weeks) and bugfixes for 6 cycles (36 weeks). LTS releases typically occur every four minor versions. The previous LTS version of Ember.js was 5.8.
```

   `npx ember-cli-update --to 6.0`. Refer to the
   [general Ember upgrade guide](https://cli.emberjs.com/release/basic-use/upgrading/#upgradinganemberappitself)
   for more details about how to upgrade your Ember app/addon.

For help or advice along the way, visit [Ember's forums or chat groups](https://emberjs.com/community/).

## The journey towards Ember Polaris

Polaris is the name of an upcoming edition of Ember, first announced at EmberConf 2021. Over the course of 6.x, new features will be added to Ember that will eventually make up the new edition.

Since our major versions tend to be uneventful, Editions are the moment where the Ember community comes together to learn and build in new ways.
An edition is a set of features, corresponding documentation, and tools that create a cohesive programming model.
An edition marks a shift and step forward in the framework, beyond what individual features would accomplish.
Ember Octane was the first new edition that was added to Ember.

Stay tuned for future blog posts with more details and calls for contributors!

---

## Ember.js

Ember.js is the core framework for building ambitious web applications.

### Changes in Ember.js 6.0

> Ember.js 6.0 introduces no new public API. Instead, it is comprised of bug fixes and the removal of previously deprecated public API from the 5.x cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ember.js 6.0 introduces no new public API. Instead, it is comprised of bug fixes and the breakage of previously deprecated public API from the 5.x cycle.
```

#### Bug Fixes

- [#20731](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/20731) - Bump barrel file deprecations until 7.0.0

#### Features

Ember.js 6.0 introduced no new features.

#### Deprecations

Ember.js 6.0 introduced 0 deprecations. It removed all deprecations that were
introduced before 5.10 and slated for removal in 6.0.

Ember 6.0 removes the following features deprecated during 5.x:

> - [Removing](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/id/deprecate-implicit-route-model) the implicit route model hook behavior where if no `Route#model` hook was specified and a `_id` parameter was present, Ember would attempt to figure out how to load that model for you.

Reviewer: This involved an optional feature that can be cleaned up https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/pull/10440 (and probably still needs to be removed from the blueprint though).

- [Removing](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/id/template-action) the `(action)` template helper and `{{action}}` modifier now that we have native classes and the `{{on}}` modifier.

> - [Removing](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/id/component-template-resolving) the runtime resolution of component templates, so if there is an import involved, there is no runtime resolution.

Reviewer: This is the removal of any support for non-colocated component templates

> - [Removing](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/id/deprecate-implicit-route-model) the implicit route model hook behavior where if no `Route#model` hook was specified and a `_id` parameter was present, Ember would attempt to figure out how to load that model for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Removing](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/id/deprecate-implicit-route-model) the implicit route model hook behavior where if no `Route#model` hook was specified and a `_id` parameter was present, Ember would attempt to figure out how to load that model for you. There is an optional feature that lets you opt-in to the new behavior in 5.x.
```

- [Removing](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/id/deprecate-array-prototype-extensions) the extension of the prototypes of native Javascript arrays to implement `Ember.Enumerable`, `Ember.MutableEnumerable`, `Ember.MutableArray`, `Ember.Array`. For convenient functions like `filterBy` or `compact`, you can directly convert to use native array methods.

> [list deprecation removals]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

For more details on how to resolve these deprecations in your app, see [the deprecations guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v5.x).

<!-- Block start: If there were no deprecations, remove this block -->

Deprecations are added to Ember.js when an API will be removed at a later date. Each deprecation has an entry in the deprecation guide describing the migration path to a more stable API. Deprecated public APIs are not removed until a major release of the framework.

Consider using the [ember-cli-deprecation-workflow](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli-deprecation-workflow) addon if you would like to upgrade your application without immediately addressing deprecations.

<!-- Block end -->

For more details on changes in Ember.js 6.0, please review the [Ember.js 6.0.0 release page](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/releases/tag/v6.0.0).

---

## EmberData

EmberData is the official data persistence library for Ember.js applications.

> EmberData 5.12 will remain an actively supported LTS for the entire duration of the 5.x cycle, extending until the first 6.x LTS is released. This is in addition to our regular LTS support policy, and only applies to the EmberData project.

Reviewer: The latest ember data is 5.3.9 and something happened this major was the decoupling of ember and ember-data versions (and now Warp Drive).

cc @runspired for anything you want to put here

> EmberData 5.12 will remain an actively supported LTS for the entire duration of the 5.x cycle, extending until the first 6.x LTS is released. This is in addition to our regular LTS support policy, and only applies to the EmberData project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EmberData [broke from Lockstep versioning in November 2023](https://blog.emberjs.com/updates-to-ember-data-versioning-strategy). Under the new policy, EmberData 5.3 is an LTS that supports `ember-source` 5.12 and `ember-source` 6.0. More compatibility info is available in the [README](https://github.com/emberjs/data#compatibility).

EmberData is also in the process of a rebrand to WarpDrive. Stay tuned for more info!
```

This support extends beyond bug-fixes. If minor enhancements can be made to better support new presentation class implementations that support the 5.x series we will willingly accept them. Our goal is that we want no one left behind.

To learn about the motivation and goals for upcoming changes to EmberData in 5.x,
read the [blog post, EmberData 5.X Update](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-data-5-x-update-2023-04-15/).

<!-- alex ignore retext-equality -->

This will help you form the mental model of what to expect across the 5.x series,
and understand deprecation removals in the context of the upcoming goals.

> The sections below will provide a high-level summary of what has changed between

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> EmberData 5.12 and 6.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Please see the [blog post](https://blog.emberjs.com/updates-to-ember-data-versioning-strategy) addressing EmberData's new versioning strategy for more information.

---

## Ember CLI

Ember CLI is the command line interface for managing and packaging Ember.js applications.

### Upgrading Ember CLI

You may upgrade Ember CLI using the `ember-cli-update` project:

```bash
npx ember-cli-update
```

This utility will help you to update your app or addon to the latest Ember CLI version. You will probably encounter merge conflicts, in which the default behavior is to let you resolve conflicts on your own. For more information on the `ember-cli-update` project, see [the GitHub README](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli-update).

While it is recommended to keep Ember CLI versions in sync with Ember and EmberData, this is not required. After updating ember-cli, you can keep your current version(s) of Ember or EmberData by editing `package.json` to revert the changes to the lines containing `ember-source` and `ember-data`.

> ### Changes in Ember CLI 6.0

Reviewer: Do you have anything you'd want to call out here that happened in the 5.x series for ember-cli or the long tail that includes? cc @ef4 @NullVoxPopuli @bertdeblock

Reviewer 3: Having the official typescript types in the blueprint could get called out here.

Also, the blueprint getting updated to the newer flat-style eslint config.

If we're looking for things during all of 5.x, automatically choosing a free port happened in 5.4 and is a pleasant quality-of-life improvement.

Reviewer: Flat-style eslint config is in 6.1

Reviewer: - `pnpm` support landed in 5.x
- official types landed in the blueprint
- Travis CI support in the blueprints was deprecated + breaks at 6
- outputPaths build option was deprecated
- @bertdeblock removed the annoying 'Ember CLI is not tested against Node N' warnings

> #### Bug Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> [list bug fixes]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Features

Ember CLI 6.0 introduced 0 features.

#### Deprecations

Ember CLI 6.0 introduced 0 deprecations.
Ember CLI 6.0 removed features and APIs that were deprecated in 5.x or earlier, please see the [Deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-cli/v5.x) for more information:

> [list deprecation removals]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `outputPaths` build option was [deprecated in 5.3](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/id/ember-cli-output-paths-build-option) and is now removed. 
- Travis CI built-in support was [deprecated in 5.5](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/id/travis-ci-support) and is now removed, including the `--ci-provider=travis` command-line flag.
```

---
title: Ember 6.0 Released
image:
imageMeta:
  attribution:
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:

>   - jared-galanis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - jared-galanis
  - katie-gengler
```
